feat: make OPL guide Console first (#1047)
ory/docs: docs/keto/guides/userset-rewrites.mdx

access to all files in that folder.

## Ory Network Setup

The fastest way to get started with Ory Permissions is using [Ory Console](https://console.ory.sh/). You can register for an Ory
Network account for free.

After logging in, navigate to `Namespaces & Rules` in the sidebar, and to the `Permisson Rules` tab.

![Custom Domain Cors disabled](../_static/opl_editor.png)

Into the editor, paste the following content:

<CodeFromRemote src={file("namespaces.keto.ts")} title="namespaces.keto.ts" />

:::info

The editor offers autocompletion for the Ory Permission Language.

:::

### Connecting to the Ory Permission Language via CLI

Next, you need to connect to the Ory Network using the Keto CLI. First, [install Keto](../install.mdx). To authenticate, navigate
to `Access & APIs` in the Ory Console and create a Personal Access Token. This, together with the subdomain from the SDK
configuration URL, need do be exported in a shell:

```sh
export KETO_READ_REMOTE=<your project slug>.projects.oryapis.com:443
export KETO_WRITE_REMOTE=<your project slug>.projects.oryapis.com:443

> export KETO_BEARER_TOKEN="<your access token>"

Reviewer: Could we instead use the Ory CLI for this?

Author: The Ory CLI currently does not support check yet. I'm all for revisiting the guide once that is implemented.

---
id: userset-rewrites
title: Define global permission rules using the Ory Permission Language
sidebar_label: Using the Ory Permission Language
---

import CodeFromRemote from "@theme/CodeFromRemote"
import BrowserWindow from "@site/src/theme/BrowserWindow"
const file = (path) => `https://github.com/ory/keto/blob/master/contrib/rewrites-example/${path}`

This guide explains how to configure namespaces and relationship rules using the
[Ory Permission Language](../reference/ory-permission-language) (OPL). You can then run fine-grained checks against Ory Keto,

> which are answered based on a combination of OPL and the concrete high-level relationships stored.

Reviewer 2: > You can then run fine-grained checks against Ory Keto
If you start from scratch, you won't be doing anything against Keto until you complete the optional step which is running a Keto instance, correct? The permission checks are handled by Ory Permissions in Ory Network if I'm not mistaken.

Author: Well you don't have to do anything if you use the Ory Network. If you want to self-host, there's a section below.

The example describes a file store. Individual files are organized in a folder hierarchy, and can be accessed by individual users
or groups of users. Using the Ory Permission Language you can specify that if a user has access to a folder, the user also has
access to all files in that folder.

> ## Ory Network Setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Ory Network setup
```

We moved away from title case in headings and titles a while back ;)

The fastest way to get started with Ory Permissions is using [Ory Console](https://console.ory.sh/). You can register for an Ory

> Network account for free.

Reviewer 2: Now this sentence here is a bit weird - the title suggests this is all about OPL and then you're saying that the easiest way to start with Ory Permissions is xxx.

Author: How's that weird? The OPL is a subset of Ory Permissions, and to use the OPL you need to use Ory Permissions, and the easiest way to start with that that is the Ory Network.

What would you like to read here?

> After logging in, navigate to `Namespaces & Rules` in the sidebar, and to the `Permisson Rules` tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Ory Console, select **Namespaces & Rules** from the navigation bar and switch to the **Permission Rules** tab.
```

Reviewer 2: The UI path description is now more in line with what I'm trying to do, UI element names are in bold (again, something I'm trying to introduce as a standard), typo fixed.

<BrowserWindow url="https://console.ory.sh/projects/3afd6339-b999-4649-a2f6-740736775f80/permissions/configuration">

![Custom Domain Cors disabled](../_static/opl_editor.png)

> </BrowserWindow>

Reviewer 2: This should be wrapped in mdx-code-block I think

Author: Why? This is not code we will show to the user, but code to generate the browser window. I'm confused.

Into the editor, paste the following content:

> <CodeFromRemote src={file("namespaces.keto.ts")} title="namespaces.keto.ts" />

Reviewer 2: This should be wrapped in mdx-code-block I think

Allowed
```

## (Optional) Local Setup and Configuration

> If you do not want to use the Ory Console you need to [install Keto](../install.mdx) locally. Next, create a `keto.yaml` file with

Reviewer 2: > If you do not want to use the Ory Console

I think it's also about not using Ory Permissions but instead relying on a self-hosted instance, right?

Author: Yes.
